# Application Overview: APOGEE

APOGEE is an Integrated Management Software (IMS) specifically designed to manage student records and their enrollments.

## Key Features

- **Administrative Enrollment**: Automatic creation of enrollment forms for students during their re-enrollments.
  
- **Student Record**: Management of administrative data for students, including their curriculum, educational enrollment, address, etc.
  
- **Internship**: Management of internship agreements for students.
  
- **Knowledge Assessment**: Input of grading scales, coefficients, and calculation rules for grades and results.
  
- **Results**: Input of grades, automatic calculation, student ranking, and production of documents such as grade reports, transcripts, and diplomas.

## Docker Compose Overview for APOGEE

The `docker-compose.yml` file is used to orchestrate the various services required to run the APOGEE application. Here is a brief explanation of the services defined in this file:

- **web**: The main service that runs the APOGEE application based on Django, served via Gunicorn. It is exposed on port 8000 of the host.
  
- **db**: PostgreSQL database service (version 13) that stores all necessary data for the application, including student records, enrollments, etc.
  
- **nginx**: Nginx web server used as a reverse proxy to redirect requests to the web service and manage SSL connections.
  
- **letsencrypt**: Service for managing SSL certificates, ensuring a secure connection to the application.

### Volumes

- **postgres_data**: Docker volume used to store PostgreSQL database data to ensure data persistence.
  
- **letsencrypt**: External volume used to store SSL certificates generated by Let's Encrypt.
  
- **static_volume**: Docker volume used to manage the application's static files, ensuring effective and persistent management of the static resources necessary for the application.

## Instructions for Running the APOGEE Application with Docker Compose

### Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure that Docker and Docker Compose are installed on your system.

### Steps to Run the Application

1. **Access the Server**:  
   Log in to your server using SSH:
   ```bash
   ssh username@your-server-ip
   ```
   Enter your password when prompted.

2. **Navigate to the Application Directory**:  
   Once connected, go to the APOGEE application directory:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/apogee-prod
   ```

3. **Run Docker Compose**:  
   To build and start the Docker containers, use the following command:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

4. **Stop the Application (if necessary)**:  
   To stop the containers without removing Docker volumes:
   ```bash
   docker-compose stop
   ```

5. **Restart the Application (after stopping)**:  
   To restart the containers after stopping them:
   ```bash
   docker-compose start
   ```

### Accessing the Application

After starting the containers, you can access the APOGEE application via a web browser using your server's IP address and port 8000, for example: [http://your-server-ip](http://your-server-ip).

Alternatively, for better security and accessibility, you can use the domain name with SSL to access the application via the following secure URL: [https://apogee.twc1.net](https://apogee.twc1.net).

### Note

Ensure that all necessary services (web, db, nginx, letsencrypt) are running and accessible before accessing the application via the browser.

### Additional Resources

For more information on Docker Compose and Docker, you can refer to the following resources:

- [Docker Compose Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
